DAKAR, Senegal — Gunmen stormed a Radisson Blu hotel on Friday morning in Bamako, the capital of the West African nation of Mali, seizing scores of hostages and leaving bodies strewn across parts of the building.A senior United Nations official said that as many as 27 people had been killed, with bodies found in the basement and on the second floor, according to a preliminary assessment of the devastating attack.An unknown number of gunmen, perhaps four or five, took “about 100 hostages” at the beginning of the siege, said Gen. Didier Dacko of the Malian Army. He said soldiers had sealed the perimeter and were now “inside looking for the terrorists.”By late afternoon, the siege appeared to be over.No more hostages were being held, said Colonel Salif Traore, Mali’s minister of interior security. Two assailants had been killed, he said, but security forces were still sweeping the hotel for other attackers who had holed up in a corner of the hotel.From early on during the attack, dozens of hostages, many of them crying – including women, children and older people — streamed out of the hotel after hiding in their rooms, said Amadou Sidibé, a local reporter at the scene.According to the operators of the hotel, 125 guests and 13 employees were inside the hotel after the siege began.An American Defense official said that 12 to 15 Americans were believed to be at the hotel when the gunmen first arrived. Six American citizens were recovered safely from the hotel, he said. The status of the others is not clear.American Special Operations forces “are currently assisting hostage recovery efforts,” said Col. Mark Cheadle, a spokesman with the United States Africa Command. “U.S. forces have helped move civilians to secure locations, as Malian forces work to clear the hotel of hostile gunmen.”The siege in Mali, a former French colony, came only a week after terrorists with assault rifles and suicide vests killed 129 people in attacks across Paris.It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the attack in Mali. Al Jazeera reported that it had received a recording asserting that a local militant group, Al Mourabitoun, had carried out the siege in conjunction with Al Qaeda’s regional affiliate, though the claim could not be independently confirmed.The Site Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist activist online, said it had seen no official claims of responsibility. But Rita Katz, the organization’s director, wrote on Twitter that Qaeda supporters had been praising the attack, quoting one who said that the Islamic State “should learn a thing or two.”Mali has long struggled with insurrection and Islamist extremism, including smaller-scale attacks on a restaurant and another hotel this year.“We don’t want to scare our people, but we have already said that Mali will have to get used to situations like this,” President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita of Mali, who was on a visit to neighboring Chad, told France 24. “We must all remain humble. No one, nowhere, is safe given the danger of terrorism.”Northern Mali fell under the control of rebels and Islamist militants in 2012. A French-led offensive ousted them in 2013, but remnants of the militant groups have staged a number of attacks on United Nations peacekeepers and Malian forces. Hundreds of French soldiers remain in the country.The Radisson Blu hotel is a popular place for foreigners to stay in Bamako, a city with a population approaching two million, and French citizens were among those taken hostage.About 20 Indian citizens were in the hotel at the time of the attack but were evacuated safely, the Indian ambassador to Mali said.Germany’s Foreign Ministry said that two Germans were among the hostages who had been released from the hotel.Four Belgians were registered in the hotel, according to a Foreign Ministry spokesman in that country. At least one of them, a 39-year-old Belgian working for the Wallonia-Brussels regional parliament, died during the attack. He was in Mali for three days for a meeting.A diplomat at the Chinese embassy in Bamako said that eight Chinese business people had been trapped in the hotel as well. Embassy officials at the scene were in touch with some of the Chinese hostages by WeChat, a Chinese messaging service, the diplomat said.Later, China’s national broadcaster, CCTV, reported that four of the Chinese citizens had been freed.Kassim Traoré, a Malian journalist who was in a building about 50 meters, or 160 feet, from the Radisson, said the attackers had told hostages to recite a declaration of Muslim faith as a way separating Muslims from non-Muslims. Those who could recite the declaration, the Shahada, were allowed to leave the hotel. The Shabab, a Qaeda affiliate in East Africa, used a similar approach in the attack at the Westgate Mall in Nairobi in 2013.The security forces moved through the hotel, floor by floor, freeing hostages as they went, Mr. Traoré added.Some of the people who fled the hotel were not wearing any clothes as they were taken to a police station.“We were just evacuated from the hotel by security forces; I know that there are a lot of people inside right now,” one hostage who made it to safety told France24 television. “I saw bodies in the lobby. What is happening right now is really horrible.”“I was hidden in my room barely a couple minutes, a couple seconds ago, and someone shouted, telling us to get out,” the hostage said. “My door was smashed open, the security forces arrived.”Another French hostage, who did not want to be identified, told a friend in Bamako that a group of people were trapped on the roof of the hotel, along with the body of one person who had died in the attack. The hostage told the friend that the French Consulate had told hostages by text message to stay put and wait for a military assault.Kamissoko Lassine, the chief pastry chef of the Radisson Blu hotel in Bamako, said that two armed men arrived at the hotel between 7 a.m. and 7:30 a.m.“They were driving a vehicle with diplomatic plates,” he said. “You know how easy that is at the hotel? The guards just lifted the barrier.”“They opened fire and wounded the guard at the front,” said Mr. Lassine, who said he was able to slip out a back door and make it home safely. “They took the hotel hostage and moved people into a big hall.”A member of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Mali, who asked not to be identified, said there were many French people in the hotel, including Air France staff members, along with a delegation for the International Organization of French Speakers. Air France later said in a statement that 12 members of its crew had been at the hotel and were freed.Five Turkish Airlines crew members, including pilots and flight attendants, have also been freed, while two remained inside the hotel, a Turkish government official said.Mali has been crippled by instability since January, 2012, when rebels and Al Qaeda-linked militants — armed with the remnants of late Libyan leader Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s arsenal — began advancing through the country’s vast desert in the north and capturing towns.A military coup, stirred in part by anger over the government’s handling of the insurrection, overthrew Mali’s elected government in March 2012. Amid the chaos, Islamist rebels managed to consolidate their hold on the northern part of the country, imposing a harsh version of Islamic law.In January of 2013, the Islamist forces began advancing south from their northern stronghold, heading in the direction of Mali’s capital. France sent in troops to stop them. A brief military campaign halted the Islamist advance, recaptured towns like Timbuktu that had been under the militants’ control, and chased the remaining Islamist fighters back into the desert.But in a shocking twist, other militants linked to Al Qaeda stormed a vast gas production facility in the desert of neighboring Algeria, taking dozens of expatriate workers hostage. Some 38 were killed during the siege of the gas plant.With hundreds of French troops still present in Mali and the country highly reliant on donors, elections in the summer of 2013 restored a democratic government. But its hold on the north remains weak.There are frequent attacks by Islamist fighters, particular on United Nations troops, in the northern provinces. A shaky peace deal signed in June has not stopped the attacks, and in August five United Nations workers were killed in an assault on a hotel in central Mali. Five months before, militants killed five at a restaurant in Bamako.The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, the operator of the Radisson Blu Hotel Bamako, said it was in contact with the local authorities, and the United States Embassy said it had issued a warning to staff members and American citizens to shelter in place.France has about 800 troops stationed in Mali as part of a larger 3,500-member regional force in West Africa. Only about a dozen or so of those troops are in Bamako itself, however.There was no formal claim of responsibility for the siege, but supporters of the Islamic State were posting on Twitter in celebration of the attack under the hashtags #IslamicState, #ParisIsBurning and #Mali_Is_Burning.In the assault in August, jihadists stormed a hotel in Sévaré, north of the capital, where United Nations staff members were staying, seizing hostages and killing at least five Malian soldiers and a United Nations contractor.


WASHINGTON — Jonathan J. Pollard, the American convicted of spying for Israel, walked out of prison early on Friday after 30 years, but the Obama administration had no plans to let him leave the country and move to Israel and his lawyers immediately went to court to challenge his parole conditions.Mr. Pollard, who as a Navy intelligence analyst passed suitcases filled with classified documents to Israeli handlers in the mid-1980s, was released in the early morning hours from a federal prison in Butner, N.C., after receiving parole on a life sentence, ending a long imprisonment that has been a constant irritant in relations between the United States and Israel.The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a statement that the people of his nation “welcome the release” and that he, personally, “had long hoped this day would come.”“After three long and difficult decades, Jonathan has been reunited with his family,” Mr. Netanyahu said, noting that he had “raised Jonathan’s case for years” with several American presidents. “May this Sabbath bring him much joy and peace that will continue in the years and decades ahead.”A spokesman for Free Pollard, a group based in Israel that has campaigned for his release, said it had been confirmed by Mr. Pollard’s wife, Esther, who had seen him. The spokesman declined to give any specifics about the timing of the release or about the couple’s whereabouts.“We know that he is out of jail; we can’t give more details,” said the spokesman, who asked that his name not be published to avoid personal attention. “He met his wife. It was a really, very, very moving moment, as you can imagine — the first time that they have been together as a couple out of jail, something that is really, really hard to imagine.”But Mr. Pollard remained under parole conditions that he and his supporters denounced as onerous. Under federal rules, he cannot leave the country for at least five years without permission. He has asked for an exception so that he can move to Israel where his wife now lives.The federal authorities also insisted that he wear an electronic bracelet with a global positioning system so that his movements could be tracked at all times and stipulated that any computers he uses, including those of any employer that hires him, be subject to monitoring and inspection. His lawyers on Friday asked a federal judge in New York to overturn those conditions, calling them illegal and unnecessary.“The notion that, having fought for and finally obtained his release after serving 30 years in prison, Mr. Pollard will now disclose stale 30-year-old information to anyone is preposterous,” his lawyers, Eliot Lauer and Jacques Semmelman, said in a statement. “Apart from the fact that the information is useless, disclosing it will result in Mr. Pollard’s swift return to prison to serve out his life sentence.”In documents filed in federal court, the lawyers said Mr. Pollard has obtained a job as a research analyst in the finance department of an investment firm in New York, which would be complicated by computer monitoring. The lawyers attached statements from Robert McFarlane, who was President Ronald Reagan’s national security adviser, and former Senator Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat from Arizona who served on the Intelligence Committee, stating that any classified information Mr. Pollard may remember from 30 years ago would be useless.The court documents made no mention of Mr. Pollard’s desire to immediately move to Israel, which would require a waiver of federal parole rules. Israel Today, a newspaper based in Jerusalem that often reflects the views of Mr. Netanyahu, reported on Thursday that the prime minister had personally appealed to President Obama during their meeting this month to lift the standard prohibition on parolees leaving the United States but received no response. American officials confirmed that the request was made.Two Democratic lawmakers wrote to the Justice Department last week urging Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch to grant the request, saying that Mr. Pollard would be willing to renounce his American citizenship and never return to the United States. They noted that a spy for Cuba was allowed to renounce his American citizenship and live in Cuba in 2013 after serving his sentence.But the White House repeated on Friday that it would not intervene in the matter. “The president has no plans to alter the forms of his parole,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters on Air Force One en route to Malaysia, where the president was traveling. He referred questions to the Justice Department.Other senior administration officials who asked not to be named discussing internal deliberations said on Thursday that the Justice Department was not considering Mr. Pollard’s request either, and that it had no plans to consider it. Administration officials have been loath to appear to grant Mr. Pollard special consideration in the face of strong opposition by intelligence agencies that call his actions a grievous betrayal of national security.“They don’t want to make it look like they were being too lenient,” said Joseph E. diGenova, the former United States attorney who prosecuted Mr. Pollard. If Mr. Pollard were allowed to go to Israel, where his case has been a cause célèbre for years, Mr. diGenova said there would be a “parade” and “events just rubbing it in the United States’ face.”The Israeli news media reported that Mr. Netanyahu and supporters of Mr. Pollard were discouraging public signs of celebration at his release to avoid antagonizing Washington. Israel radio reported that he was released before dawn on Friday to keep the event as low-profile as possible, given the international attention to his case.Supporters said it was churlish to deny Mr. Pollard the chance to leave the country now that he has completed his sentence.“I don’t know why we wouldn’t approve that,” said Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who wrote last week’s letter along with Representative Jerrold Nadler, another New York Democrat. “He served his full term. I don’t know what good it does except to keep the whole show going.”The show has been going for three decades. Arrested in 1985, Mr. Pollard eventually pleaded guilty to handing Israel suitcases full of classified documents that included intelligence about Arab military systems and Soviet weapons as well as satellite photographs and information about American “sources and methods” of its own spycraft.In the ensuing years, multiple governments in Jerusalem pressed for Mr. Pollard’s release, only to be rebuffed by successive American presidents. The only American ever given a life sentence for spying for an ally, Mr. Pollard was granted Israeli citizenship during his imprisonment.At one point, the Obama administration considered freeing him as part of a broader effort to induce Israel to make concessions in a peace deal with the Palestinians, but ultimately opted not to. In the end, officials said Mr. Pollard served the full amount stipulated by federal law, which requires a parole hearing after 30 years of a life sentence.While the Obama administration did not facilitate his early release, it also chose not to object to granting him parole, but it denied that it was trying to assuage Israel after a rupture over the president’s nuclear deal with Iran. The United States Parole Commission announced in July that Mr. Pollard had met the legal standards for release.Mr. Pollard left the prison in North Carolina under cover of night, eluding reporters, photographers and television crews waiting on the other side of a country highway. Guards prevented the journalists from entering the prison grounds, directing them across the road, where the only sight of anyone coming or going was through the windows of moving cars.An Israeli couple that had been touring the United States and Canada since last month pulled up to the east entrance of the prison in a Pace Arrow recreational vehicle around 6:30 a.m. “We came to see Pollard get out,” said Laya Saul. “I’ve been praying for him for years.”“He did something wrong,” she added. “He deserved to do some time. But people who have done some really dark crimes have gotten less time than he did.”Her husband, Yaron Jackson, wearing the sidelocks of Orthodox Judaism, said he wished 10,000 more Jews had come. “There’s a mitzvah, a commandment, to bring a Jew out of prison,” he said. “It’s just kind of a custom to pray for a Jew to get help. This is God answering our prayers and saving one of our brothers.”Mr. Netanyahu had asked his ministers to refrain from discussing the case in order to tamp down the air of celebration. On Friday morning, though, Ayelet Shaked, the hawkish Israeli justice minister, exulted on her Facebook page, “A free man!” over his photograph, and made a biblical reference that implied that he should be allowed to emigrate to Israel.“Sons will yet return to their borders,” Ms. Shaked wrote, a twist on a verse from the Book of Jeremiah, “And thy children shall return to their own border.”Nachman Shai, a lawmaker from the center-left Zionist Union who heads a Parliament caucus that pushed for Mr. Pollard’s release, wrote in a letter to Mr. Pollard that the group would “not cease its activity until we remove the limitations imposed upon you upon your release.“We continue to demand the removal of any restriction on your freedom of movement, communication, or other violation of your rights,” Mr. Shai wrote. “We will not rest until you are free to depart the United States for any destination of your choosing, first and foremost Israel.”


Three members of a family in Liberia have contracted Ebola, two months after the country was declared free of the virus, health officials said on Friday.The first documented case in the family was a 10-year-old boy who started showing symptoms last week, said a Liberian health official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.After attending school on Monday and Tuesday, the boy was admitted to a hospital and was transported to an Ebola treatment unit on Wednesday, the official said.The boy’s test came back positive on Thursday, as did subsequent tests for his father and a sibling, the official said, adding that at least seven health care workers may have treated him without the protective equipment essential for Ebola cases.The World Health Organization declared Liberia free of Ebola on May 9, but a resurgence of the disease the next month sickened four people, two of whom died. The country was declared Ebola-free again on Sept. 3.In Geneva, Dr. Bruce Aylward, the World Health Organization’s special representative for the Ebola response and deputy director general for outbreaks and health emergencies, told officials that the new case had not dimmed hopes that West African countries might still be moving toward eliminating the original outbreak.The boy’s case appears to point to the persistence of the virus among survivors, which can result in occasional resurgence of the disease, Dr. Aylward said, adding that flare-ups are expected to be less common and to end in 2016.Dr. Aylward, said the boy had no known contacts with a survivor or a history of travel that might have put him at risk. “The investigation is ongoing,” Dr. Aylward said. “The country has moved extremely quickly.”He said the latest developments were the seventh time the W.H.O. suspected that a flare-up was related to the persistence of the virus in the population of survivors. For example, scientists have shown that the virus remains present for months in the semen of some men who recover from the disease, and could, in rare cases, be transmitted through unprotected sex.In all cases, however, transmission has been stopped quickly, with a low number of subsequent cases. New tools include an experimental vaccine that can be given to those who come into contact with patients.Dr. Aylward said the new case highlighted the importance of maintaining strong surveillance programs.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta said in a statement that it was working closely with the Liberian government and with international organizations. It noted that sporadic cases had been expected in Liberia, even though it had been declared free of Ebola.“Even though it has been nearly four months since the last Ebola patient was discharged from a Liberian Ebola treatment unit, Liberia has maintained a heightened state of vigilance,” the C.D.C. said in the statement. “Responders have proven to be effective in rapidly identifying, isolating and treating new cases. As the situation continues to evolve, C.D.C. and partners are working hard to rapidly control this case.”A slow initial global response to the outbreak has been blamed for the scale and length of the epidemic, which killed more than 11,000 in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.On Sunday, a committee appointed by the W.H.O.’s director general called for overhauls at the agency in the wake of the epidemic, including integrating emergency response and outbreak control functions, with oversight by an independent body.Three other panels, including one convened by Harvard and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and another by the National Academy of Medicine, are expected to release recommendations on preventing and controlling future pandemics in the coming weeks.


A woman’s Facebook account was disabled. A bookstore was vandalized. And one company, moved by the attacks on Paris, just doesn’t want the association anymore.While the name Isis has become synonymous with a terrorist organization, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, it is also the name of a well-known Egyptian goddess.Many women are named Isis, including 396 babies born in the United States last year.For the world’s many Isises, each act of horror carried out by the Islamic State has been accompanied by the unsettling and repeated use of their name in news reports. An online petitioner has even gathered almost 57,000 supporters to call on the news media to stop using the acronym.“I named my daughter Isis because it’s strong and meaningful,” wrote one commenter on the petition, Shani Allman of Florida. “To have it degraded and have her jeopardized by the media’s insensitivity is completely disturbing.”A woman in Britain wrote that her 7-year-old daughter, who was named after the goddess, went to bed crying “because people were being horrible to her about her name.”Companies called Isis have been forced to confront how attached they are to the name. Isis was once the name of a mobile payment technology and a new condo building in Florida. They both changed their names last year. Isis Pharmaceuticals, a California biotech company founded in 1989, told CNN it is now discussing the same move.Part of the River Thames in Britain remains known by the name, as does a feminist club at Fordham University and the Labrador in “Downton Abbey.” The dog has been killed off from the show — though not because of its name. (Fans of comics and 1970s television may recall it as the name of a superhero.)On Tuesday, Isis Books & Gifts, a Colorado store that was vandalized this week, pleaded in a Facebook post: “Please help us educate the media and your family and friends to call the terrorists by a more correct name — Daesh — not Islamic State, not ISIS, not ISIL.”The term Daesh — also sometimes referred to as Da’ish — has been used by officials in France since last year. It’s an acronynm of the group’s Arabic name, but it’s also favored by many people because it sounds like another Arabic word, daes, which is used as an insult.The White House most often uses ISIL to refer to the militants. It stands for Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. Both ISIS and ISIL are often shortened to just the Islamic State, and all of those names anger many Muslims who disapprove of the word Islam being in the name, and because it implies the group is a state. (The Times typically uses “Islamic State” but does sometimes use the other names in quotations and headlines.)But it’s the ISIS acronym that seems to be causing the most problems for like-named people and organizations, with the Paris attacks now forcing them to face the issue anew.For Isis Pharmaceuticals, a name change was not in consideration as recently as last year. But a company spokesman told CBS News this week that the tragedy “weighed heavily on us, and we don’t want to have that association.”Isis Anchalee, a platform engineer based in San Francisco, suggested Tuesday on Twitter that Facebook had frozen her account because of her name.
            Facebook thinks I'm a terrorist. Apparently sending them a screenshot of my passport is not good enough for them to reopen my account.        The page was restored, with Facebook apologizing and explaining that the account had been flagged by one or more users as fake or offensive.Isis Beckwith, a 29-year-old college student and Navy veteran in Washington, says she’s gotten a lot of double-takes, chuckles and distasteful jokes, along with being asked whether she’s thought about changing her name. (She has not).“My father just thinks it’s a shame that the name has been tarnished with the association. I still think it’s beautiful,” wrote Ms. Beckwith, who was named after the Egyptian goddess, in an interview over Facebook Messenger.Ms. Beckwith says the good “definitely outweighs the bad” with the remarks she gets about her name. “I would just like others to think twice about what they are about to say,” she wrote. “It’s just starting to get old.”


WASHINGTON — Jonathan J. Pollard, the American convicted of spying for Israel, walked out of prison early on Friday after 30 years, but the Obama administration had no plans to let him leave the country and move to Israel and his lawyers immediately went to court to challenge his parole conditions.Mr. Pollard, who as a Navy intelligence analyst passed suitcases filled with classified documents to Israeli handlers in the mid-1980s, was released in the early morning hours from a federal prison in Butner, N.C., after receiving parole on a life sentence, ending a long imprisonment that has been a constant irritant in relations between the United States and Israel.The Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a statement that the people of his nation “welcome the release” and that he, personally, “had long hoped this day would come.”“After three long and difficult decades, Jonathan has been reunited with his family,” Mr. Netanyahu said, noting that he had “raised Jonathan’s case for years” with several American presidents. “May this Sabbath bring him much joy and peace that will continue in the years and decades ahead.”A spokesman for Free Pollard, a group based in Israel that has campaigned for his release, said it had been confirmed by Mr. Pollard’s wife, Esther, who had seen him. The spokesman declined to give any specifics about the timing of the release or about the couple’s whereabouts.“We know that he is out of jail; we can’t give more details,” said the spokesman, who asked that his name not be published to avoid personal attention. “He met his wife. It was a really, very, very moving moment, as you can imagine — the first time that they have been together as a couple out of jail, something that is really, really hard to imagine.”But Mr. Pollard remained under parole conditions that he and his supporters denounced as onerous. Under federal rules, he cannot leave the country for at least five years without permission. He has asked for an exception so that he can move to Israel where his wife now lives.The federal authorities also insisted that he wear an electronic bracelet with a global positioning system so that his movements could be tracked at all times and stipulated that any computers he uses, including those of any employer that hires him, be subject to monitoring and inspection. His lawyers on Friday asked a federal judge in New York to overturn those conditions, calling them illegal and unnecessary.“The notion that, having fought for and finally obtained his release after serving 30 years in prison, Mr. Pollard will now disclose stale 30-year-old information to anyone is preposterous,” his lawyers, Eliot Lauer and Jacques Semmelman, said in a statement. “Apart from the fact that the information is useless, disclosing it will result in Mr. Pollard’s swift return to prison to serve out his life sentence.”In documents filed in federal court, the lawyers said Mr. Pollard has obtained a job as a research analyst in the finance department of an investment firm in New York, which would be complicated by computer monitoring. The lawyers attached statements from Robert McFarlane, who was President Ronald Reagan’s national security adviser, and former Senator Dennis DeConcini, a Democrat from Arizona who served on the Intelligence Committee, stating that any classified information Mr. Pollard may remember from 30 years ago would be useless.The court documents made no mention of Mr. Pollard’s desire to immediately move to Israel, which would require a waiver of federal parole rules. Israel Today, a newspaper based in Jerusalem that often reflects the views of Mr. Netanyahu, reported on Thursday that the prime minister had personally appealed to President Obama during their meeting this month to lift the standard prohibition on parolees leaving the United States but received no response. American officials confirmed that the request was made.Two Democratic lawmakers wrote to the Justice Department last week urging Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch to grant the request, saying that Mr. Pollard would be willing to renounce his American citizenship and never return to the United States. They noted that a spy for Cuba was allowed to renounce his American citizenship and live in Cuba in 2013 after serving his sentence.But the White House repeated on Friday that it would not intervene in the matter. “The president has no plans to alter the forms of his parole,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, Mr. Obama’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters on Air Force One en route to Malaysia, where the president was traveling. He referred questions to the Justice Department.Other senior administration officials who asked not to be named discussing internal deliberations said on Thursday that the Justice Department was not considering Mr. Pollard’s request either, and that it had no plans to consider it. Administration officials have been loath to appear to grant Mr. Pollard special consideration in the face of strong opposition by intelligence agencies that call his actions a grievous betrayal of national security.“They don’t want to make it look like they were being too lenient,” said Joseph E. diGenova, the former United States attorney who prosecuted Mr. Pollard. If Mr. Pollard were allowed to go to Israel, where his case has been a cause célèbre for years, Mr. diGenova said there would be a “parade” and “events just rubbing it in the United States’ face.”The Israeli news media reported that Mr. Netanyahu and supporters of Mr. Pollard were discouraging public signs of celebration at his release to avoid antagonizing Washington. Israel radio reported that he was released before dawn on Friday to keep the event as low-profile as possible, given the international attention to his case.Supporters said it was churlish to deny Mr. Pollard the chance to leave the country now that he has completed his sentence.“I don’t know why we wouldn’t approve that,” said Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, who wrote last week’s letter along with Representative Jerrold Nadler, another New York Democrat. “He served his full term. I don’t know what good it does except to keep the whole show going.”The show has been going for three decades. Arrested in 1985, Mr. Pollard eventually pleaded guilty to handing Israel suitcases full of classified documents that included intelligence about Arab military systems and Soviet weapons as well as satellite photographs and information about American “sources and methods” of its own spycraft.In the ensuing years, multiple governments in Jerusalem pressed for Mr. Pollard’s release, only to be rebuffed by successive American presidents. The only American ever given a life sentence for spying for an ally, Mr. Pollard was granted Israeli citizenship during his imprisonment.At one point, the Obama administration considered freeing him as part of a broader effort to induce Israel to make concessions in a peace deal with the Palestinians, but ultimately opted not to. In the end, officials said Mr. Pollard served the full amount stipulated by federal law, which requires a parole hearing after 30 years of a life sentence.While the Obama administration did not facilitate his early release, it also chose not to object to granting him parole, but it denied that it was trying to assuage Israel after a rupture over the president’s nuclear deal with Iran. The United States Parole Commission announced in July that Mr. Pollard had met the legal standards for release.Mr. Pollard left the prison in North Carolina under cover of night, eluding reporters, photographers and television crews waiting on the other side of a country highway. Guards prevented the journalists from entering the prison grounds, directing them across the road, where the only sight of anyone coming or going was through the windows of moving cars.An Israeli couple that had been touring the United States and Canada since last month pulled up to the east entrance of the prison in a Pace Arrow recreational vehicle around 6:30 a.m. “We came to see Pollard get out,” said Laya Saul. “I’ve been praying for him for years.”“He did something wrong,” she added. “He deserved to do some time. But people who have done some really dark crimes have gotten less time than he did.”Her husband, Yaron Jackson, wearing the sidelocks of Orthodox Judaism, said he wished 10,000 more Jews had come. “There’s a mitzvah, a commandment, to bring a Jew out of prison,” he said. “It’s just kind of a custom to pray for a Jew to get help. This is God answering our prayers and saving one of our brothers.”Mr. Netanyahu had asked his ministers to refrain from discussing the case in order to tamp down the air of celebration. On Friday morning, though, Ayelet Shaked, the hawkish Israeli justice minister, exulted on her Facebook page, “A free man!” over his photograph, and made a biblical reference that implied that he should be allowed to emigrate to Israel.“Sons will yet return to their borders,” Ms. Shaked wrote, a twist on a verse from the Book of Jeremiah, “And thy children shall return to their own border.”Nachman Shai, a lawmaker from the center-left Zionist Union who heads a Parliament caucus that pushed for Mr. Pollard’s release, wrote in a letter to Mr. Pollard that the group would “not cease its activity until we remove the limitations imposed upon you upon your release.“We continue to demand the removal of any restriction on your freedom of movement, communication, or other violation of your rights,” Mr. Shai wrote. “We will not rest until you are free to depart the United States for any destination of your choosing, first and foremost Israel.”


